you've probably seen the news of jobs
moving from one place to another but did
you realize that a trillion dollars has
gone with it in today's video we're
gonna break that down we're gonna look
at what's happening in the economy and
I'm going to tell you what some others
have been doing all of that and more
let's begin here we have the situation
where New York and California each lost
one trillion dollars when Financial
firms moved South for the first time
hard data shows the scope of the
upheaval and that's what I want to break
down for you right here my name is David
guentherium what I do here at this
channel is take all this complicated
stuff make it real easy I show you
what's happening in the stock market I
look at what's happening in the economy
and I'm simply trying to break this down
at a level that everybody can understand
and then I tell you what some people are
starting to do as a result of all this
information let's begin with this
showing us very clearly that it started
off slow but now it has been and
speeding up recently for the first time
there are hard numbers quantifying the
exact scope of The Exodus both states
have in the past three years lost firms
that manage close to a trillion dollars
of assets you're looking at what they're
saying here corporate filings for more
than 17 000 firms at the end of 19 2019
so they're collecting all this data
putting it together a trillion dollars
in each spot it's not a small number
even for New York and California these
are Big economies certainly but you
can't stop where this exit starts
happening there's a reason for it right
why has this been happening is it a
fluke is it just because of what
happened during 2020 well there are
certainly a few reasons for it the
Exodus from the Northeast and the West
Coast has meant that the loss of
thousands of high-paying jobs straining
city and state finances by sapping tax
revenue so of course what they're trying
to do now is create new taxes new ways
to tax people so that they can get some
additional Revenue back and you're
looking at the direction it's pretty
clear I mean we all knew this anyway but
leaving California Texas is the top
destination for investment firms and you
look at 158 companies managing nearly a
trillion dollars in assets move their
headquarters out of New York 104 firms
shifted Florida shifted to Florida 56 of
them from New York I cover this during
the last few years we've been seeing it
very clearly in this direction probably
not a surprise I didn't realize however
a trillion dollars has gone with it so
that was even a surprise to me and so we
look at this when you do it when you do
this you're bringing the people and
potentially that Talent comes with it
right so you're bringing a lot of good
people into new areas and that attracts
even more businesses in those areas
because they start to say oh I would
love that guy on my team I would love
that guy and my team and certainly that
area starts to change it might take a
while but that's the way it goes so this
is front and center because we're
watching it in real time hard to look at
it in real time but see what's happening
here we've got prices that have been
rising in these areas the real estate
was already super expensive so of course
a lot of people were saying you know
what I'd rather go to a place like Texas
I can get the home for half the cost I
can now work remotely oh I'm going to go
over here and now the prices of areas
like Miami and so on have gone up to
levels that is record high but also now
unaffordable for there as well so not
everybody is you know Jeff Bezos they
can buy a house in every state if they
want this is something that it started
to come down and become an issue for a
lot of people and so the food prices
were too high you had so many
restrictions in these areas people
didn't like the politics I mean there
are lots of reasons but ultimately it
comes down to the finances and when
things are too expensive when you don't
like the circumstances around you you
simply move out and that has happened
here for both jobs as well as the money
okay here we go the s p downgrades
multiple U.S banks citing tough
operating conditions so we do have the
rising interest rates which we'll talk
more about here but you can see it for
yourself looking at several Banks being
downgraded we have seen others uh being
downgraded you know the Fitch I believe
it was recently downgrading the US
there's a lot going on at this time and
we're facing it we're right in the
middle of it and the honest truth here
is that this is not going to be resolved
while interest rates remain elevated
they are looking for interest rates to
come down but in this period of time it
becomes very difficult so we have the
circumstance of high interest rates but
these Banks they were buying all of
these assets when interest rates were
super low they've got losses to deal
with and that's why they are starting to
create a what they call loan loss
Provisions loan loss Provisions that's
money for a rainy day knowing that
there's a wave of defaults coming and
that will be the video I cover next
you'll have to stay tuned for that
tomorrow
I'll be breaking that all down it's not
just in the United States or Europe like
it's everywhere this is an issue of
course and I'll cover that all when we
look at what the central banks are doing
know that it is generally going to flow
all together
there are some changes of course but
when you just kind of zoom out and give
it a you know a period over 10 years you
start to see that they generally act a
accordingly one thing that they've been
doing is in especially in the Emerging
Markets Central Bank gold demand in the
first half of 2023 was the highest on
record they're buying a lot of gold oh
the U.S isn't Canada definitely isn't
but a lot of countries are doing so and
part of this is because of the D
dollarization we are aware of that but
we also do see that these countries
would rather hold on to a little bit
more gold now than US dollar
and they're always going to have
reserves so they're going to have US
dollar reserves there's no question
about this but instead of buying let's
just say let's make up a number a
billion dollars a month maybe they're
buying eight hundred thousand a month of
that US dollar and then buying 200 of
the gold let's just say like that and so
they're trying to diversify out of just
US dollar because they're starting to go
into the new world a new order right
things are changing
German Central Bank gold revaluate
re-evaluation account underlines the
soundness of the balance sheet
interesting stuff whereby basically
they're saying look we've taken a lot of
losses recently because of the increase
in interest rates all these things that
have happened oh but we have a lot of
gold and that's done better over the
last few years
revaluing that puts us Back in Balance
isn't that interesting central banks
that can print an infinite amount of
money they could devalue their currency
as much as they want and they still
value gold
something real something real can it
could it be
feds Williams says he sees restrictive
rates for some time rate Cuts may be
warranted next year if inflation slows
and that's the expectation we have
Jackson Hole Jackson Hole is the number
one most important Central Banking event
all year and that is coming up if you
subscribe to the channel of course
you'll get all the details of that but
what we have right now is coming up at
the end of the month and we're going to
see potentially some details no policy
will be put in place or anything like
that but we will get some information
back and I believe the you know the
general assessment here is that they
will not increase interest rates this
time around we'll have to see
for the ECB though they had hiked
interest rates last time combating
inflation and leaving the door open to
more so we know that the issues of
Europe are you know quite excessive when
you look at some of these countries
higher unemployment rates they've got
big problems with the banking sector
they've got inflation they've got the
issues yeah initially was energy and now
that has shifted somewhat to food prices
still extremely high and you can't get
around that you can't add another just
put another sweater on or another
blanket on and turn down the heat
this is food there's only so much you
could do that's why I talk about people
get to know your Farmers grow your own
food these are things that we should be
doing
the ECB is trapped between Japan and the
US I think that Europe is in the worst
possession actually personally uh based
on my studies based on everything that
people I talk to Europe is just in a
terrible circumstance overall there are
some bright spots but you can see the
struggle that they're going through I
wish that they would create policies
that would be beneficial to the people
Portugal has done some good things but
overall just just not wise okay you need
to have things that just make sense but
you don't you see the action they put
through and it's just like what what do
you do are you trying to crush the
economy and the answer of course is yes
but uh
that brings us to this economy the
Eurozone economy is set for a painful
Reckoning ECB rate hike will trim four
percent from economic output and so I
don't necessarily think that increasing
interest rates is a bad thing we have to
get rid of all that waste what I call in
my first book
economic detox and so that's got to go
away but they don't let that happen they
don't shed all of the waste that just
doesn't occur so what does occur is
people end up getting screwed over
because the timeline is too short it
needs to remain elevated for a long
period and other policies need to be put
in place how many policies do we see
where they're restricting development so
how are you supposed to get new and
affordable housing on the market when
you're putting these policies that are
making it more difficult you have to
incentivize these things but they're not
doing that and so when you see a city
doing this understand that rents will
increase
rents are going to increase and make it
more difficult overall we need lower
interest rates
to actually facilitate people to do
these things and build and grow and so
on but the policies that are put there
the restrictions that are put there and
end up just making it more profitable
for them and then in the end the people
don't get lower rents and and better you
know better for their mortgages and so
on it just it's not it just doesn't work
like that long term that's what I have
seen
for those who believe that there may be
a soft spot ahead it's going to be
manageable it's going to be short it's
going to be shallow and so they're not
going to shed a bunch of workers what
are we talking about here oh that's
right the recession
just gonna be a little blip you don't
need to worry about it there's a huge
debate and I want to know what you think
will there be a recession officially
will they declare it if there is a
recession is it going to be short is it
going to be long is it going to be
shallow or deep there are many
possibilities here and that that's what
we're dealing with right now we're still
undergoing the discussion of whether
it's ever going to happen my goodness
all right much of the price pressures in
the Euro area were coming from the high
energy costs recently we've had the food
prices so the point is we're dealing
with this all over the world every place
every place seems to be dealing with
something right and you're probably
asking yourself what can I do well
there's different things I talked about
this a few minutes ago if you're dealing
with a food problem what can you do well
of course you can grow your own food
secondarily you can have relationships
with your farmer you can go to the form
and you could say look this is the
circumstance I would like this and that
and you can split with your family with
your friends with your co-workers with
like-minded people
because that would give you a super low
cost and I know people that have taken
you know half of an animal or whatever
then they go to the butcher they bring
it to the butcher the butcher does it
all for them they got the big freezer
they they take care of that long term
other people with Gardens they're able
to actually keep that Garden going even
in the cold temperatures all year round
okay maybe you're not getting your you
know all your food but anything helps
what about this
this is just one example
Singapore workers are the world's
fastest in adopting AI skills according
to LinkedIn and so these people are
adding their skills they're saying
Singapore one of the best places in the
world for you know the the economy the
currency safety and so on
they're adding AI they're saying okay AI
is this new thing that all the companies
are looking for I'm going to take a
course where can you learn about that
well I've talked about it before I have
videos about it plus Central type into a
search engine class Central or you can
type in
um you know there's a video but I have a
short that talks about this class
syndrome okay so what are they doing
they're adding AI why because the jobs
are going there AI automation robotics
learn about these things get certified
if you can if you are in a position that
might be disrupted by these new
technologies add that to what you've got
if you want to know more about these
things if you want to be on top of
everything the number one place to be is
my Discord Discord I'm going to be doing
so many things including doing giveaways
of my books giveaways of other things as
well hoping to figure out a way to do
giveaways of cash and basically the way
that it will work is you have to be on
the Discord it's free of course all
you're gonna do hit that link in the
description below over 11 700 people on
that Discord and I want to see you there
I hope to see you there click that link
I'll see you